# Java-Program
This project is the culmination of my operating platforms course. This project helped in my preparation to design and build solutions using structured architectural designs and practices. 

For the purposes of our assignment, our company took on the new client The Gaming Room. We were assigned a project that resulted in the game Draw It Or Lose It. The game requirements were to only allow for a single game instance per user at one time. Players would be able to create, save, and access their data. The data consisted of the users login, the teams, the players, and the games. The client sought to expand their client base with accessibility to a plethora of platforms and operating systems. 
During the design document drafting, build requirements and operating platform specifications had to be taken into consideration. We utilized common design patterns for object creation. We used common security authentication and role-based access to protect the user’s data. We circumvented building many variable O.S. specific programs by routing most functions through API calls to our web-based servers. Having the user store only UI/UX files locally in cached memory, we reduced the user’s latency. 
If I were to revisit any one particular section, I believe I would review the operating systems specifications. I would like to dive deeper into O.S. specific differences in order to better deliver functioning and versatile products. Understanding these can improve time-to-market and be prepared for O.S. updates. Alternatively, I believe that my design recommendations at the end were reasonable and well-delivered.
When reading the design requirements, there was an extensive amount of ambiguity. This opens the design document to allow for innovative design principles being implemented. Often I hear the instruction to meet a need, not how to meet it. This was exhibited here where we were given creative freedom to make an efficient and effective game. Alternatively, if we were to use effective Product Owner processes, we would have likely drilled down additional details with the client and prospective users to strengthen our backlog. When we utilize user interviews, we can utilize the unique perspectives of those who have the issue we are looking to solve with our product.
Moving forward, I intend on becoming familiar with the logical premise of design patterns, system requirements, and how to optimize the quality of my products. The end-result needs to be that the client is content, the user’s problem is being solved, and the user has the intent to continue using the product. Strategic development and system design principles are essential to building with intent and efficiency. 
